# Contributing to Shelter

Contributions are welcome! Please follow these guidelines :)

## Getting started

1. Look for open issues or create a new one to discuss your ideas before starting.
2. Fork the repository and create a new branch from `main`:
```bash
   git switch -c feature/your-feature-name

```

4. Make your changes and ensure the code follows the project's style.
5. Open a Pull Request.

## Translations

Thank you so much for your interest in contributing to the translation! We use the [Weblate](https://weblate.org/) translation platform to streamline the process and allow everyone to easily support the translation.

Currently, the translation is being passed through a selected whitelist. If you would like to contribute, please send a message on the [Discord server](https://discord.gg/BntK5GbF2M) ~~or email  `hello@shelter.cat`~~.

You can visit the translation platform at the following link and see the current status of all active translations: [i18n.stageddat.dev/projects/shelter-web/](https://i18n.stageddat.dev/projects/shelter-web/)

## LLM

We appreciate features that utilize LLM as a helpful, user-initiated tool, such as LLM-assisted local formatting, intelligent autocomplete, or translation tools. However, we do not accept Pull Requests focused on autonomous agents. The user must always maintain full control and be ultimately responsible for any actions generated by LLM. We reserve the right to reject or close these Pull Requests, and to block future contributions from authors who violate these terms.

**Note:** If your feature integrates or uses any LLM-assisted tool, you must explicitly specify which model is being used.

## Notes

* **No "Vibe Coding":** While we encourage using LLMs to assist your workflow, we do not accept PRs that are blindly "vibe coded" by a model. You must thoroughly understand, test, and be able to explain every line of code you submit. If an LLM helped you write the code, please specify the model used in your PR description.
* **Project Philosophy:** Every contribution must strictly align with our local-first, privacy-respecting, and lightweight philosophy. Bloatware or hype-driven features will be rejected.
* **Code Style:** Please respect the existing architecture and formatting of the codebase. Code that looks out of place, ignores project patterns, or lacks proper structure will not be merged.